# AWS GUI Access

Amazon Web Service (AWS) is the cloud computing platform provided by Amazon.
AWSoffers different dunctionalities for database storage, compute power, content
delivery and many more to help businesses scale and grow.
AWS provides browser based Graphical User Interface(GUI). Through this GUI,
customer can manage their resources.
All AWS services can be accessed from the GUI. 



## AWS Account

In order to access services provided by Amazon, user account should be created
on AWS console.

##### Existing User: 
Open `https://aws.amazon.com/`, and click `Sign in to the console`.

##### New User:

Step 1: Open `https://aws.amazon.com/` and click `Create New Account`.

Step 2: Give details such as email address, password and user name.

Step 3: Contact details: Give all specified contact details. 

Step 4: Payment Information: Give credit card/ debit card details for user
verification by AWS.

Step 5: Phone verification: AWS will make a call on the given number and give a
4 digit code to verify your phone number.

Step 6: Select a support plan and Continue. 

AWS account will be created successfully. 



## To create new user in AWS

##### Step 1: Go to services and select IAM

1. Login to AWS account.
2. Go to `Services` and select `IAM`. IAM stands for Access and Identity.
Management.
3. Inside IAM resources, click on `User`. 
4. This will show the list of users. Click on ``Add User`` to add a new user. 
 
 
##### Step 2: User Details

* Provide username 
	
User names can contain alphanumeric characters, or any of the following:
_+=,.@- 

* Select AWS Access type

1. Programmatic access		

	This will generate access key and secret key which can be used in AWS APIs or
	SDKs to access AWS resources.

2. AWS Management Console access

	Enables user login to console based on password.
        
  	There are two options given by AWS for password management.
	
	* Autogenerated password - Generated by AWS.
	
	* Custom password - Given at the time of user creation.
        
![AWS create
user](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sp18-420/blob/master/tutorial/images/adduser.PNG?raw=true)
        
   Select appropriate options and click ``Next Step``.
        
##### Step 3: Set Permissions

* Add users to group

	Groups are collections of users. Groups enable to apply common permissions to
	all users.
    
* Copy permissions from existing user

	Copy permissions from other user will copy all group memberships and attached
	policies of selected user.
    
* Attach existing policies directly
	
	This option enables to select existing policies or create new policy and
	attachto user. IAM displays list of existing properties which includes
	Administrator
	access, S3 Full access and similar access policies.

These properties can also be applied later after user creation. 

Once this step is complete, Click `Next` to Review.

##### Step 4: Review

This step is to review the options selected while creating new user. 

This screen will show the user name, AWS access type, Console password type and
Require password type to be true or false.

If No permissions are given, a warning will be displayed on the top. 

If everything is reviewed, click `Next` to create user.

##### Step 5: Create User

After Clicking Next: Create User, New user is successfully created. 

If Programmatic access was selected in step 1, user specific access key and
secret key will be displayed on UI. The secret key will be shown only once at
this step.
Hence, it is important to download it or store it somewhere for using it later.
![AWS create
user](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sp18-420/blob/master/tutorial/images/userCreated.PNG?raw=true)

## AWS Services

All the services provided by Amazon are available at the ``Services`` drop down
provided at the top of all pages.
![AWS
services](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sp18-420/blob/master/tutorial/images/aws_services.PNG?raw=true)

### Access S3

To access Amazon S3, select ``S3`` from the ``Services`` drop down at the top
ofweb page.

#### Create new bucket

1. Click on ``Create Bucket`` button. 

2. Provide bucket name and Region

3. There are other optional tabs to set bucket properties and permissions. 

4. Click on ``Create``

A new bucket will be created. 

![AWS
bucket](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sp18-420/master/tutorial/images/s3-bucket.JPG?raw=true)

#### Upload file

To upload a file to S3 bucket, go to the bucket to which file needs to be
uploaded.

1. Simply drag and drop the required file.
2. Click on Upload button

A popup will appear to add more files, set file permission, set file properties
and review.

![file
upload](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/hid-sp18-420/blob/master/tutorial/images/upload.JPG?raw=true?raw=true)


In this way, it is very simple to use the AWS services with the GUI provided.
