% status: 0
% chapter: TBD

\title{Amazon S3}


\author{Swarnima Sowani}
\affiliation{%
  \institution{Indiana University}
  \streetaddress{Smith Research Center}
  \city{Bloomington} 
  \state{IN} 
  \postcode{47408}
  \country{USA}}
\email{shsowani@iu.edu}

\newcommand{\GE}{\footnote{Grammar}}
\newcommand{\GVL}[1]{\footnote{#1}}
% The default list of authors is too long for headers}
\renewcommand{\shortauthors}{G. v. Laszewski}

\begin{abstract}

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) is a storage system built to store and
retrieve any amount of data objects from anywhere on web such as web sites or mobile
applications. It is a simple web service that provides flexibility for user to
manage data in a secure way and optimized cost. Amazon S3 manages security by
providing access control, data encryption and versioning capability. Amazon S3
can be used to access and manage data by web sites, mobile applications,
corporate applications and data from IoT devices~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3}.

\end{abstract}

\keywords{hid-sp18-420, AWS, Amazon S3, i526, Simple Storage System}

\maketitle

\section{Introduction}

Amazon S3 stands for Simple Storage Service. Amazon S3 provides a highly
scalable, reliable, and low latency data storage infrastructure at low
costs~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-FAQ}. Amazon S3 can be used to store and
retrieve data of any kind and any amount. It can be accessed from anywhere.
Amazon S3 can be used for static website hosting for different web applications.

One of the important features of using S3 is it offers a highly durable,
scalable, and secure destination for backing up and archiving critical
data~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3}. As per AWS documentation, ``Amazon S3 is
designed to deliver 99.999999999\% durability, and it is used to store data for
millions of applications used by market leaders in every
industry''~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3}.

Amazon S3 provides versioning capability for protection of stored data by giving
versions to each of the data file. Amazon S3 enables user to write lifecycle
rules to migrate less frequently accessed data. One can store any number of file
objects. Size of one object ranges from 0 bytes to 5 terabytes. Price for using
Amazon S3 service depends on the usage of the service and is specific to the AWS
region.



\section{Concepts and Architecture}


Amazon S3 stores data within resources called buckets and data is stored inside
these bucjets as an object where object is nothing but a data like text file.
Each bucket has its own name and this name is globally unique. Amazon has
defined different regions based on availability of its resources and this
globally unique name indicates uniquness across all regions provided by Amazon.
The global namespace allows to organize and access data effectively.

Amazon has not specified any restriction on number of data objects to be stored
in one bucket but number of buckets are limited to 100 per account. Each object
is associated with a meta data which is in key value pair format and consists of
predefined key values such as LastModified date time of an object.

S3 files can be accessed or created based on the access control restrictions
applied to that bucket. This adds security to data. Amazon S3 has a search
functionality which can be used to search the objects within the bucket. This
search is based on the file name and the search string should contain the full
file name or any prefix of file name. Amazon does not provide content based
search functionality for S3 so one cannot search for the internal data in a
file.




\section{Key Features}


\subsection{Simplicity and Flexibility} 

Amazon s3 is simple to access using web based AWS management console,
mobile app, full REST APIs and AWS SDKs for integration with Mobile
SDK, Java, PHP, Python, \.NET, Node.js, Ruby. S3 features allows users
to take data driven approach for optimization and management of data
efficiently~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-FAQ}.


\subsection{Data Durability and Reliability} 

``Amazon S3 provides durable infrastructure to store important data and is
designed for durability of 99.999999999\% of objects. Your data is redundantly
stored across multiple facilities and multiple devices in each
facility''~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3}.

\subsection{Simple Data Transfer} 

Amazon S3 makes it simple to transfer data as it provides set of tools and
different options of data migration to move large volume files from Amazon S3.
Using S3 transfer acceleration~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-dataTransfer-FAQ},
it is fast, easy and secure to transfer files over long distance. AWS
Snowball~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-snowball}, AWS Snowball
Edge~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-snowball-edge} and AWS
Snowmobile~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-snowmobile} are used for large transferring
where data migration can be made at one fifth of the cost of high speed
internet~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-cloud-migration}.

\subsection{Security and Access Management} 

Amazon S3 provides multiple mechanisms to provide data security and to control
or monitor data access to user.


\begin{description}

\item [User identities.] Each user registered to Amazon web service gets an
identity. These identities are linked to credit cards to prevent one person to
create multiple fake user accounts. S3 also has a concept of anonymous requests
when no information is associated about user within the request.

\item [Access control.]Access controls are given by access control lists (ACL).
Each ACL can specify the access for up to 100 identities. S3 supports different
access controls.

\begin{description}
\item [FULLCONTROL] The owner preserves full control over the object with all
permissions.
\item [READ] It is given to buckets or users to read the object.
\item [WRITE] It is given to buckets so that user can create objects in the
bucket.
\item [READACL] It is given to buckets or objects by which a user can read the
ACL and get the identity of the owner.
\item [WRITEACL] It is given to user to change the Access control list. It is
similar to full user control since the user can assign any right.
\end{description}

\item [Encryption.] Data can be securely uploaded or downloaded in S3 using SSL
encrypted endpoints. If user chooses to server side encryption, Amazon s3 will
automatically encrypt the data on every write and decrypt the data on every
read~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-data-encryption}.

\item [Versioning.] Amazon S3 provides versioning capability to preserve and
restore all the versions of objects in a bucket. This allows the recovery for
any application failure or wrong action of user or it is available whenever
required for reference. S3 enables user to configure life cycle
rules~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-lidecycle-rule} to automatically manage the
versioning.

\end{description}


\subsection{Query in Place} 

This is one of the important features of Amazon. S3 allows to run some big data
analytics on data without moving it to any other system. Amazon provides suit of
tools for analysing and processing data in S3. Using different queries, subset
of data required from S3 object can be taken~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3}.

\section{Use cases}
Amazon S3 can be used in different ways based on the requirement. 

\begin{description}
\item [Static web content and media.] Amazon S3 is widely used for storing
static web content and media for different applications. Each object in the S3
has a unique HTTP URL to access that object. Hence, this content can be
delivered directly. Amazon S3 can be used as an origin store for content
delivery networks like Amazon
CloudFront~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-cloudfront}. Amazon S3 is suited for
hosting web content that requires bandwidth for addressing extreme spikes in
demand. For fast growing websites such as hosting data intensive content like
video or photo sharing websites, Amazon S3 is the solution as it does not
require any additional storage provisioning.

\item [Host Static Website.] Amazon S3 can be used to host static website as it
provides low cost and highly available solution. Amazon S3 can be used to store
static HTML files, images, videos and scripts such as java script easily. Using
Amazon S3, a bucket can be configured for website hosting. After configuring a
bucket, a website is available with its end point.


\item [Computation and Analytics.] Amazon S3 is used as a data store for big
data analytics. It is suitable for data that requires large scale analysis like
financial transaction analysis and multimedia
transcoding~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-FAQ}.
Since Amazon S3 is scalable horizontally, user can access data from multiple
computing nodes
simultaneously without any constrain of single connection. Amazon offers
different services that helps to manage big data in S3.


\item [Backup and Archive.] Amazon S3 offers different ways to securely backup
data stored in S3. Amazon glacier~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-glacier} can be used
to move data from S3 for backup purpose. Amazon S3 cross origin replication is
also available which can copy objects to S3 buckets in different AWS regions
asynchronously. Lifecycle rules can be defined to migrate less frequent data to
storage class named S3 standard infrequent access and archive to Amazon Glacier.
Amazon also provides versioning capability for S3 data. Versions are crated for
data objects in S3 so older data can be accessed with the older version of that
data object.

\end{description}

\section{Pricing}

For Amazon S3 storage, pricing is performed based on the storage used. There is
no cost required for setup and no minimum fee applicable. Amazon S3 pricing is
based on the storage in the form of per GB per month, data transfer and number
of requests per month. These rates differ based on the AWS region. ``AWS free
tier provides discount which includes 5GB storage, 20000 get requests, 2000 put
requests and 15 GB data transfer for
free''~\cite{hid-sp18-420-amazon-S3-pricing}.


\begin{acks}

The author would like to thank Dr.~Gregor~von~Laszewski for his support and
suggestions to write this paper and improve its content.

\end{acks}


\bibliographystyle{ACM-Reference-Format}
\bibliography{report} 
